src/content/posts/2017-01-23-testing-kinesis-advantage-keyboard.md, before:

---
title: "Testing the Kinesis Advantage Pro"
---

I recently started to observe some minor discomfort while coding with the
Microsoft Wired Keyboard 600 which I started typing with 10 months ago.

This was when I decided to give more ergonomic keyboards a try.

Just recently I noticed the wide variety of options when martin fowler [posted](https://twitter.com/martinfowler/status/815974878675353600)
something about him trying out the Kinesis Advantage Pro (KAP). After reading
Avdi Grimms Post [Why you should spend $350 on a computer keyboard](http://www.virtuouscode.com/2016/10/06/why-you-should-spend-350-on-a-computer-keyboard/)
I decided to give the Kinesis a try.


## Adapting to the Kinesis

While I see the problem (e.g. *Vendor lock-in*) of learning and therefore investing and
relying on a manufacturer-specific piece of hardware, especially for something as profound
as typing, I also think that re-learning basic skills help to deepen understanding of
fundamental concepts, e.g. typing.

Well, lets see about that!

To make my learning process somewhat more quantifiable I decided to use [10FastFingers.com](https://10fastfingers.com/)
to measure my current typing speed with the Microsoft Keyboard and compare it daily
with my achieved typing speed with the KAP.

I dont consider pure typing speed as a sole success factor but its the easiest
measurable metric and its sole purpose is to allow a somewhat comparable metric.

The baseline speed with the Microsoft Keyboard is around 80 WPM.

![Words per Minute with the Microsoft Keyboard](/images/posts/kap-original.png)

### Day 1

The first day was pretty brutal and displayed shortcomings regarding my current typing
technique.

![Words per Minute on day 1](/images/posts/kap-day1.png)

### Day 2

Day 2 I introduced the pedal. More on that later. I mapped it to `shift` but after
using it for 3-4 hours my leg started aching. The progress in terms of WPM was not
huge.

Three reasons. First: I did not train a lot, just 3-4 hours overall. Second: I started
properly coding, resulting in slowly re-learning all those precious muscle-memory
dependant shortcuts and commands. Third: I realized that a lot of my typing is not
`writing words` but commanding the computer to switch contexts, navigate the filesystem,
search for text in files or eventually on the screen.

I excited to see whats happening in the next 5-10 days.

![Words per Minute on day 2](/images/posts/kap-day2.png)

Commit message:

KAP: Add note about third day

src/content/posts/2017-01-23-testing-kinesis-advantage-keyboard.md, after:

---
title: "Testing the Kinesis Advantage Pro"
---

I recently started to observe some minor discomfort while coding with the
Microsoft Wired Keyboard 600 which I started typing with 10 months ago.

This was when I decided to give more ergonomic keyboards a try.

Just recently I noticed the wide variety of options when martin fowler [posted](https://twitter.com/martinfowler/status/815974878675353600)
something about him trying out the Kinesis Advantage Pro (KAP). After reading
Avdi Grimms Post [Why you should spend $350 on a computer keyboard](http://www.virtuouscode.com/2016/10/06/why-you-should-spend-350-on-a-computer-keyboard/)
I decided to give the Kinesis a try.


## Adapting to the Kinesis

While I see the problem (e.g. *Vendor lock-in*) of learning and therefore investing and
relying on a manufacturer-specific piece of hardware, especially for something as profound
as typing, I also think that re-learning basic skills help to deepen understanding of
fundamental concepts, e.g. typing.

Well, lets see about that!

To make my learning process somewhat more quantifiable I decided to use [10FastFingers.com](https://10fastfingers.com/)
to measure my current typing speed with the Microsoft Keyboard and compare it daily
with my achieved typing speed with the KAP.

I dont consider pure typing speed as a sole success factor but its the easiest
measurable metric and its sole purpose is to allow a somewhat comparable metric.

The baseline speed with the Microsoft Keyboard is around 80 WPM.

![Words per Minute with the Microsoft Keyboard](/images/posts/kap-original.png)

### Day 1

The first day was pretty brutal and displayed shortcomings regarding my current typing
technique.

![Words per Minute on day 1](/images/posts/kap-day1.png)

### Day 2

Day 2 I introduced the foot pedal. More on that later. I mapped it to `shift` but after
using it for 3-4 hours my leg started aching. The progress in terms of WPM was not
huge.

Three reasons. First: I did not train a lot, just 3-4 hours overall. Second: I started
properly coding, resulting in slowly re-learning all those precious muscle-memory
dependant shortcuts and commands. Third: I realized that a lot of my typing is not
`writing words` but commanding the computer to switch contexts, navigate the filesystem,
search for text in files or eventually on the screen.

I excited to see whats happening in the next 5-10 days.

![Words per Minute on day 2](/images/posts/kap-day2.png)

### Day 3

I ditched the foot pedal. Also I started to invest some time to think about
different ways of key-remapping.

Over the day I spent about 3-4 hours typing, partially coding, partially
writing text. Overall I mildly improved my WPM from 14 to 22.

![Words per Minute on day 3](/images/posts/kap-day3.png)

I definately dont want to change existing key-mappings since I will keep on
using the not-ergonomic Microsoft keyboard and dont want to relearn two things
at once.

Therefore will investigate a software-solution to keep the same key-mappings
but having an additional layer of `meta-mapping` when working with the kinesis.
